- [Instructor] To kick things off,
we'll discuss the overarching concepts
that build the Swagger platform's foundation.
To effectively use Swagger,
you must understand the high level difference
between Swagger and the OpenAPI Specification.
It's a little confusing and developers
often have trouble understanding the difference.
Swagger is a toolset and structured approach
that helps us design, document and generate code
for RESTful APIs.
The OpenAPI Specification provides a standard format
for creating metadata that defines RESTful web services.
Knowing the history behind these projects
can help us better distinguish between the two.
Swagger began in 2010 when Tony Tam started
an opensource project
to provide interactive API documentation
and client SDKs for APIs at Wordnik,
an online dictionary service.
At this point in its history, Swagger included both
the specification and the tooling.
The Swagger specification provided a structured approach
for documenting APIs and you will hear it referred to
as OpenAPI Specification 2.0 or Swagger docs.
As time passed, Swagger gained popularity
amongst several competing API description languages
and what's acquired by SmartBear in 2015.
In order to keep the specification vendor neutral,
SmartBear donated the Swagger specification
to the OpenAPI Initiative who renamed it
the OpenAPI Specification.
The OpenAPI Initiative is a collaborative working group
focused on development of the OpenAPI Specification
which was formerly the Swagger specification.
Members of the OpenAPI Initiative
include prominent organizations such as Microsoft,
Google, IBM, PayPal and SmartBear.
So it's important to remember that Swagger
allows us to easily design, document
and generate code for APIs.
Swagger's toolset helps us produce API definitions
that adhere to the OpenAPI standard.
Other tools can read those definition files
to build documentation, server stubs
and other client SDKs that are useful
for working with APIs.
On the other hand, the OpenAPI Specification
provides a standard format for metadata
used to describe or define RESTful web services.
The metadata is machine readable so it can be consumed
by tools or systems that are built
to understand API definitions adhering to the standard.
So at high-level, think of Swagger as a set of tools
and OAS as the rules for describing APIs.
The Swagger Toolbox can be broken down
into two categories,
the open-source tools and pro tools.
The open-source tools are available to be downloaded
and installed for free use.
These tools provide the basics that you will need
to build an API definition, API documentation
and client SDKs.
The pro tools provide a more comprehensive platform
that includes collaboration features
for teams that are building APIs.
Additionally, you'll find the tools
to build API definitions, generate code and documentation
within the pro tools.
The pro tools are available via a subscription service
which includes a free plan.
So at a high-level, this is an overview
of the Swagger ecosystem.
At the top level of the hierarchy,
we need to distinguish between the Swagger toolset
and the OpenAPI Specification.
The Swagger toolset is further categorized
by the open-source tools and the pro tools.
Throughout the course, we'll be diving
into each of these areas,
so that you can build higher quality APIs in less time.